Kubernetes: -Cluster:

Worker Node -Phy or Virtual (Host Application as Containers)
Master Node -> Manage, Plan, Schedule, Monitor Nodes

MASTER_NODE:
etds -DB store in key-value manner about cluster info
Kube-Scheduler -> Scheduling application or container on nodes
Kube-apiserver ->
Controller manager ->Resp -Node controller or replication takes care
Api-server -> Responsible for all orchestrating all operations with in the cluster
 
WORKER_NODE:
Kubelet -Agent its listens instructions from the kube-api server to manages the container - once info received from kube-api server it will creates the pods on node and instruct the container runtime engine to deploy the application image.
the scheduler continue to monitor the api-server 
instead of kubectl command we can invoke apis directly by sending a post requests directly 

Ex: Creating a Pod:
-------------------
api server creates a pod object first without signing into the node updates the information in etcd cluster and update the user that pod is been created.
the scheduler continues to monitor the api server and realizes there is new pod with no node is assigned 
scheduler ident right node to place new pod on and comm back to kube server
api-s update info in the etcd clisrt
api-s then pass the information kubelet in appropriate worker node.
the kubelet - then creates pod on node and instructs the CRI to deploy the application image
once dine, kubelet update the status back to the api-ser
api-ser then update data in etcd cluster, a similar pattern followed every time a change is requested.

Kube-apiS ->Authenticate user-> validate Request->Retrieve data ->update in ETCD-> other components scheduler & kubectl uses the api-server to perform the updates in the cluster in that respective area.
 


Kube-Proxy- it enabling the communication b/w services with in the cluster.

Container-D
ctl -command line utility that comes with containerD which is used debugging purpose only and has limited futures
nodectl - Used for general purpose

Kubenets- CRI -Container Runtime interface (CRI)
Crictl - its kubernets community -Debugging 

Etcd -datastore -Port 2379
Store the information about the clusters such as (Nodes, Pods, Config, secretes, accounts, Roles, Bindings and others.
any changes you made in cluster like adding the nodes, pods, replica sets, it will update in etcd server
	
2 ways of installing the Kubernetes cluster:
1. using kubeadm
2. from scratch


Kubernets-Service: 

NodePort -Service listen on port on node and forward the request to the pods.
Cluster IP
Load balancer







